Adding topic about implementing recommendations (#8138)
magento/devdocs: src/recommendations/implementation.md

---
group: product-recommendations

> title: Implementation Steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Implementation steps
```

ee_only: True
---

To help you implement product recommendations on your storefront, use the following workflow:

> 1. **Deploy data collection to production**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Deploy [data collection]({{ page.baseurl }}/recommendations/product-recs.html#types-of-data) to the production storefront**
```

Author: I'd rather not make the heading a link. I've incorporated your change into the Why section.

   -  **Why** - The more data you collect the more accurate your recommendations will be. As soon as you start collecting data, you can pull that data into your non-production environment and experiment with different recommendation types on different pages.

>    -  **How** - [Install the Product Recommendations module]({{ page.baseurl }}/recommendations/install-configure.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   -  **How** - [Install and configure the Product Recommendations module]({{ page.baseurl }}/recommendations/install-configure.html).
```

>    -  **Notes** - Deploying data collection will not change your storefront's appearance or your shopper's experience. Only creating and deploying recommendation units will introduce new sections on your storefront. Do not create recommendation units until you customize your template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   -  **Notes** - Deploying data collection will not change your storefront's appearance or your shopper's experience. Only creating and deploying recommendation units will alter the customer experience on your storefront. Do not create recommendation units until you customize your template (<-INSERT LINK).
```
ALso add a blurb that you should test on pre-production before deploying to prod

>    -  **Notes** - Deploying data collection will not change your storefront's appearance or your shopper's experience. Only creating and deploying recommendation units will alter the customer experience on your storefront. Make sure you test on your non-production environment before deploying to production. Also, do not create recommendation units until you customize your template. See the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  **Notes** - Deploying data collection does not change your storefront's appearance or your shopper's experience. Only creating and deploying recommendation units alters the customer experience on your storefront. Make sure you test on your non-production environment before deploying to production. Also, do not create recommendation units until you customize your template. See the next step.
```

1. **Customize the template to match your style**

>    -  **Why** - Your storefront represents your brand so make sure you modify the product recommendations template to match the style of your site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  **Why** - Your storefront represents your brand, so make sure you modify the product recommendations template to match the style of your site.
```

   -  **How** - [Customize]({{ page.baseurl }}/recommendations/customize.html) the product recommendations template.

>    -  **Notes** - By customizing the template you can specify your stylesheet, overwrite where a recommendation unit will appear on a page, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  **Notes** - By customizing the template, you can specify your stylesheet, overwrite where a recommendation unit will appear on a page, and so on.
```

1. **Test recommendations on your non-production environment**

>    -  **Why** - It is always a best practice to test a new technology on your non-production environment before you deploy to production. Testing recommendations on your non-production environment allows you to play with different recommendation unit types, positioning, and pages. Because you already deployed the data collection JavaScript to production, you can now pull behavioral data from production so the recommendations you create on your non-production environment reflect the shopping behavior of actual customers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   -  **Why** - It is always a best practice to test a new technology on your non-production environment before you deploy to production. Testing recommendations on your non-production environment allows you to play with different recommendation unit types, positioning, and pages. If you already deployed the data collection in production, you can pull recommendations based on that behavioral data while testing in pre-production environment, so that recommendation results are based on the shopping behavior of actual customers.
```

>    -  **Why** - It is always a best practice to test a new technology on your non-production environment before you deploy to production. Testing recommendations on your non-production environment allows you to play with different recommendation unit types, positioning, and pages. If you already deployed the data collection in production, you can pull recommendations based on that behavioral data while testing in your non-production environment, so that recommendation results are based on the shopping behavior of actual customers.

Reviewer: "If you already deployed the data collection in production" That was step 1, and it didn't read as an optional step. I would delete that clause and begin the sentence like "You can pull recommendations based on behavioral data already gathered while..."

   -  **How** - [Fetch behavioral data from your production environment]({{ page.baseurl }}/recommendations/test.html)
   -  **Notes** - Ensure your non-production environment catalog is largely the same as the one that you have in production. Using similar catalogs ensures that the products returned in the recommendation units closely mimic those on production.

1. **Create and Deploy recommendations to your production storefront**

>    -  **Why** - Now that you have deployed the data collection JavaScript to production, modified the product recommendations template, and tested recommendations using actual shopper behavior, you are now ready to create and deploy recommendations on production.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   -  **Why** - Now that you have deployed the behavioral data collection in production, modified the product recommendations template, and tested recommendations using actual shopper behavior, you are now ready to promote all code to production and create product recommendations for your customers.
```

>    -  **How** - [Create product recommendations](https://docs.magento.com/user-guide/marketing/create-new-rec.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   -  **How** - Promote any code changes to production and [create product recommendations](https://docs.magento.com/user-guide/marketing/create-new-rec.html)
```

> 1. **Create and Deploy recommendations to your production storefront**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Create and deploy recommendations to your production storefront**
```

---
group: product-recommendations
title: How to Implement Product Recommendations
ee_only: True
---

To help you implement product recommendations on your storefront, use the following workflow:

1. **Deploy data collection to production**

>    Product Recommendations are made up of two main data sources: [catalog and behavioral]({{ page.baseurl }}/recommendations/product-recs.html#types-of-data). By deploying data collection to production, you are enabling a JavaScript application to collect the behavioral data. The more data you collect, the more accurate your recommendations will be. As soon as you start collecting data, you can pull that data into your non-production environment and experiment with different recommendation types on different pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Deploying Product Recommendations requires two main data sources: [catalog and behavioral]({{ page.baseurl }}/recommendations/product-recs.html#types-of-data). Because production is the only environment where your shoppers' actions can captured and analyzed, it's in your best interest to start data collection on production as early as possible. The more data you collect by the time you start showing recommendations to shoppers, the higher quality you can expect your recommendations to be. As an added benefit, when you start collecting behavioral data on production, you can fetch Recommendations based on this production data while operating in non-production environments [ADD LINK]. This enables the user to test and experiment with different recommendations that are computed based on real shopper data collected in production.
```

   {:.bs-callout-tip}

>    Deploying data collection does not change your storefront's appearance or your shopper's experience. Only creating and deploying recommendation units alters the customer experience on your storefront. Make sure you test on your non-production environment before deploying to production. Also, do not create recommendation units until you customize your template. See the next step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Deploying data collection does not change your storefront's appearance or your shoppers' experience. Only creating and deploying recommendation units alters the customer experience on your storefront. Make sure you test on your non-production environment before deploying to production. Also, do not create recommendation units until you customize your template. See the next step.
```

   See [Install and configure the Product Recommendations module]({{ page.baseurl }}/recommendations/install-configure.html) to learn how to complete this step.

1. **Customize the template to match your style**

>    Your storefront represents your brand, so make sure you modify the product recommendations template to match the style of your site.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Your storefront represents your brand, so make sure you modify the product recommendations template to match your site theme.
```

   {:.bs-callout-tip}
   By customizing the template, you can specify your stylesheet, overwrite where a recommendation unit will appear on a page, and so on.

   See [Customize]({{ page.baseurl }}/recommendations/customize.html) to learn how to complete this step.

1. **Test recommendations on your non-production environment**

>    It is always a best practice to test a new technology on your non-production environment before you deploy to production. Testing recommendations on your non-production environment allows you to play with different recommendation unit types, positioning, and pages. You can pull recommendations based on behavioral data already gathered while testing in your non-production environment, so that recommendation results are based on the shopping behavior of actual customers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   It is always a best practice to test a new technology on your non-production environment before you deploy to production. Testing recommendations on your non-production environment allows you to play with different recommendation unit types, positioning, and pages. You can pull recommendations based on behavioral data already gathered on production while testing in your non-production environment, so that recommendation results are based on the shopping behavior of actual customers.
```

   {:.bs-callout-tip}
   Ensure your non-production environment catalog is largely the same as the one that you have in production. Using similar catalogs ensures that the products returned in the recommendation units closely mimic those on production.

   See [Fetch behavioral data from your production environment]({{ page.baseurl }}/recommendations/test.html) to learn how to complete this step.

1. **Create and deploy recommendations to your production storefront**

>    Now that you have deployed the behavioral data collection in production, modified the product recommendations template, and tested recommendations using actual shopper behavior, you are now ready to promote all code to production and [create and deploy product recommendations](https://docs.magento.com/user-guide/marketing/create-new-rec.html) for your customers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Now that you have deployed the behavioral data collection in production, modified the product recommendations template, and tested recommendations using actual shopper behavior, you are now ready to promote all code to production and [create shopper-facing product recommendations](https://docs.magento.com/user-guide/marketing/create-new-rec.html).
```

To help you implement product recommendations on your storefront, use the following workflow:

1. **Deploy data collection to production**

>    -  **Why** - Product Recommendations are made up of two main data sources: [catalog and behavioral]({{ page.baseurl }}/recommendations/product-recs.html#types-of-data). By deploying data collection to production, you are enabling a JavaScript to collect the behavioral data. The more data you collect the more accurate your recommendations will be. As soon as you start collecting data, you can pull that data into your non-production environment and experiment with different recommendation types on different pages.

Reviewer 3: `enabling a JavaScript to collect the behavioral data`

Should we say "enabled a JavaScript application" or something like that? "Enabling a JavaScript sounds a little awkward.

Author: Oops...yes! I'll clean that up.
